what does the ah counter roll look like
in an actual Toastmasters meeting you've
come to the right place in this live
video example I'm going to take you into
one of my Toastmasters meetings and
allow you to observe me doing the awe
counter role this isn't edited this
isn't filtered this is me doing the full
roll from start to finish I'm going to
show you that then I'm going to comment
what things did I do well what things
could I have improved on and it will
give you an example of how you should do
the ah counter roll hey everyone my name
is Wade Patterson I'm passionate about
Toastmasters about public speaking about
impactful communication these are all
things I cover on my YouTube channel if
that sounds like it could add some value
to you please subscribe to my channel it
really really helps me grow and allows
me to create more video content just
like this turn on notifications as well
so that you never miss a video so those
of you who are fans of the channel know
that I have started doing the these live
example videos which I hope to do with
more and more roles of the Toastmasters
program this is the second one I'm doing
and it is on the all counter roll which
is such an important role within the
Toastmasters program I have another
video on my channel that really dives
into the specifics and things to think
about before taking on the awe counter
rule if you haven't seen that video
before check out the link in the video
description because that is going to
give you a more in-depth idea of what to
be thinking about before doing the role
but watch both of these videos because
you'll get the in-depth description in
the other video and then you actually
get to see me do it in this video and
the combined power of those two is going
to help you knock the ah counter roll
out of the park why does the all counter
roll matter it matters a lot because new
speakers often use crutch or filler
words in between sentences things like
ah um or so and but there's all of these
words that we add in instead of silence
and for us as speakers it's
uncomfortable to allow that silence in
between sentences but for the audience
it's more enjoyable to listen to the ah
counter catches those things in a
Toastmasters meaning let's take a look
at my live aw counter role at my local
Toastmaster club meeting
[Applause]
thank you Mr Toastmaster fellow
Toastmasters both in person and on zoom
and our welcome guest the role of the
awe counter is to catch filler or crutch
words such as ah um so the words that we
put in between sentences instead of
Silence so that when we're sharing
sentimental Christmas Memories
laughs
we can be listened to and appreciate the
stories that we are telling today the
common word amongst the group was ah or
the common filler word ah that was used
many times Den in his role as president
came up delivered also had the table
topics answer seven us uh was the word
Andy as Toastmaster a lot of speaking
opportunity uh and so were the two uh
was used four times so once Kim as timer
explaining the role the first time was
to Oz and then on the report in the
second half of the meeting none at all
Diane with the toast Flawless incredible
pauses throughout the toast well done
Sue as humorous two sews and to us
Margaret as grammarion several Oz and
ums
and was the other and leading into
another sentence
Kenny on the blue book review and true
speech evaluations one uh that's it such
an incredible job
Fahad during his speaking role didn't
catch anything Wendy as Speaker
three M's two so's and a just just as a
word that's not needed because it takes
away from what we're trying to say
Luke as a table topic answer three ums
Frank table topic answer to us Tegan
three us Moya Flawless and Kim as I
mentioned your second timer report was
Flawless thank you Mr
well there you have it now is the fun
part where I get to evaluate myself and
explain where I could have done things a
little better to improve on the role you
just watched overall I was pretty happy
with that all counter roll performance I
managed to explain the purpose of the
role at the beginning and I even
squeaked in the word of the day which
was sentimental you may have noticed by
my cheeky little wink at the grammarian
in our meeting I wanted to incorporate
that word as well the word of the day is
something that is included in most
hostmasters clubs and it's always a good
challenge to try to incorporate that
word into any role that you do at
Toastmasters I personally like to
challenge myself to not use notes very
often at Toastmasters but there are some
roles that you pretty much need to use
notes and all counter is one of them it
is almost impossible to remember exactly
how many us or ums each Toastmasters
member gave throughout the meeting you
probably need to reference some form of
notes just like the timer roll you're
not going to memorize everyone's timings
you probably need some form of Notes One
suggestion and you may have noticed this
with my grammarian roll video as well I
like to bring up a hard book or
something behind that single piece of
paper the reason for this is that
sometimes when we get nerves when we're
public speaking our hands shake and we
aren't able to control this it's a
natural reaction and if you have a
singular piece of paper in your hands it
may rattle the piece of paper and the
audience may be able to tell that your
hand is shaking but if you have
something heavier like a book that's
holding it if your hand is shaking a bit
nobody can notice because the book is
too heavy to be rattling and that is
something I have done throughout my
speaking career when I do have notes
hold holding them behind a binder or a
heavier book or something like that a
little Pro tip for all of you who are
going to incorporate notes with your
next speaking role one thing I was proud
of in this role was maintaining third
person until the very end of the role I
think I referenced a Toastmasters member
named Kim and I said you third person is
talking about somebody by using their
name Wade did this well John could have
improved here when you switch That Into
You talking to somebody specifically Kim
you did this very well we call that
second person ideally you want
evaluations to stay in third person but
whether they're third person or second
person what you want to definitely focus
on is not bouncing back and forth so you
don't want to say John did this very
well Kim you could have improved there
Wade you could have improved here going
back and forth that's not consistent and
especially if you're in a club contest
maintain your evaluation in third person
this is something that is incredibly
challenging and that I struggle with
often but that is the goal is to remain
in third person if you're watching
closely you may have noticed on the zoom
screen behind me that the timer's lights
were showing and when you see the green
light go on I suddenly speed up my
evaluation that is another area I could
have improved is quicker pacing from the
beginning with the aw counter report you
have a lot of information to get out
there in one to two minutes and what
often happens in this role is you see
Toastmasters members realizing they're
almost out of time and then rushing
through the end of the evaluations or
mentioning people whether they said um
or ah what you want to do is have that
pace steady from the beginning so that
you're not rushing at the end to finish
up the role you want to give everyone in
the meeting
their feedback on an equal level whether
they were the first Speaker or the last
speaker many times people get caught up
in getting into too much detail early on
and then they run out of time at the end
of the role so what was the feedback
from the general evaluator well overall
he didn't have any gifts to give me or
pieces of constructive criticism so I
guess I'll take that as a positive he
did mention that I showcased good
listening skills which was nice to hear
and he appreciated that I gave a bit
more context to some of the words for
example when I explained to Margaret
she's using the word and I explain how
it was a run-on word saying end and then
going to the next sentence that type of
specific feedback will hopefully help
Margaret in her future speeches and that
was something that was recognized by the
general evaluator the all counter rule
is a great one to take on if you are new
to Toastmasters it forces you to be a
careful listener throughout the entire
meeting making notes of people's crutch
words and by doing so by listening
carefully for other people naturally it
helps you beware of what those filler
words are as well and that will help you
in your own speech going forward the
requirements are taking notes and then
delivering a report at the end of the
meeting which is one to two minutes it's
a relatively simple role that way if
you're thinking about taking it on I
want this video to be that piece of
encouragement to sign up for that role
you can do it and hopefully the live
video example that I did showcases how
you can take it on thank you so much for
watching this video if my channel is
providing you with value of any sort
Please Subscribe turn on notifications
comment like this video all of those
things really help me and allow me to
continue creating this type of video
content thanks so much and I'll catch
you on the next one thank you so much
for watching this video if you are
looking for a little bit of code
coaching help with your next speech I am
providing one-on-one evaluations my
contact email is in the video
description reach out to me and let's
discuss what that could look like